date:: [[May 17th, 2022]]
publisher:: Manning
title:: @Hugo in Action
item-type:: [[book]]
original-title:: Hugo in Action
language:: English
authors:: [[Atishay Jain]]
library-catalog:: Amazon
links:: [Local library](zotero://select/groups/2386895/items/Q2SK9VW9), [Web library](https://www.zotero.org/groups/2386895/items/Q2SK9VW9)
num-pages:: 865

- [[Abstract]]
	- Build and deploy a live website in just 30 minutes using Hugo. The Hugo engine lets you rapidly deliver static sites that are low maintenance, high performance, and feature rich. In Hugo in Action you will learn:     Building web pages with Hugo and Jamstack     Creating content using Markdown     Content management with Hugo     Designing new Hugo themes     Using the Go template language     Managing dependencies with Hugo modules     Accessing APIs with Jamstack     Adding a shopping cart using JavaScript     Content tagging with markup  Sometimes, simple is better. Static websites—sites with fixed content—are easier to create and maintain, and inherently more secure than dynamic pages. Hugo in Action is a hands-on guide to using the Hugo static site engine to render these websites in milliseconds. Working with a complete example website and source code samples, you’ll learn how to build and host a site that will wow users and stay stable without a third-party server. Full coverage of the Jamstack (Javascript, APIs, Markdown) shows how easy it is to add complex features to super-simple sites, including eCommerce shopping carts, dynamic forms, and multilingual options.  About the technology Because they load pre-built pages, static websites are simple, secure, and incredibly fast. With the Hugo static site generator you can build and render a website in seconds without the grind of hand coding the pages. Hugo takes a directory of content and templates and renders it as a full HTML and CSS website—perfect for blogs, documentation, and other sites that don’t require real-time updates.  About the book In Hugo in Action you’ll learn step-by-step how to build efficient, low-maintenance static web sites. You’ll use Hugo as a CMS and web development environment, create custom pages, and design your own Hugo themes. And you won’t stop there! Moving beyond the basics, you’ll incorporate the Jamstack model to add capabilities like eCommerce and your own APIs. The result: rich websites that are flexible and incredibly stable.  What's inside     Building web pages with Hugo and Jamstack     Using the Go template language     Managing dependencies with Hugo modules     Content tagging with markup About the reader For web developers with a basic knowledge of JavaScript.  About the author Atishay Jain is a Senior Computer Scientist at Adobe. He has developed web-based software used by millions of Adobe Creative Cloud customers. Table of Contents PART 1 STATIC HUGO WEBSITES: LOADING FAST, BUILDING TO LAST 1 The Jamstack and Hugo 2 Live in 30 minutes: You now have a website 3 Using markup for content 4 Content management with Hugo 5 Custom pages and customized content with the Go template language 6 Structuring web pages 7 Creating your own theme 8 Hugo Modules: Plugins for everybody PART 2 EXPANDING WITH THE JAMSTACK: DYNAMIC OUTSIDE, STATIC INSIDE 9 Accessing APIs to enhance functionality 10 The power of JavaScript 11 Breaking barriers with custom APIs and webhooks 12 Adding e-commerce capabilities using the Jamstack 13 Wrapping it up
- [[Attachments]]
	- [Jain - 2022 - Hugo in Action.epub](zotero://select/groups/2386895/items/IBLQHJHZ) {{zotero-imported-file IBLQHJHZ, "Jain - 2022 - Hugo in Action.epub"}}
	- [Jain - 2022 - Hugo in Action.pdf](zotero://select/groups/2386895/items/AZFHVR2B) {{zotero-imported-file AZFHVR2B, "Jain - 2022 - Hugo in Action.pdf"}}