date:: [[Jun 14th, 2021]]
publisher:: LIMITS
conference-name:: Seventh Workshop on Computing within Limits 2021
proceedings-title:: Computing within Limits
extra:: Citation Key: leal2021
doi:: 10.21428/bf6fb269.67a8d057
title:: @leal2021
item-type:: [[conferencePaper]]
access-date:: 2024-02-08T12:39:43Z
original-title:: HCI’s Role in the Capitalocene: Lessons Learned from an HCI Master Course Across the Globe
language:: en
url:: https://limits.pubpub.org/pub/f8ee6iac/release/1
short-title:: HCI’s Role in the Capitalocene
authors:: [[Débora de Castro Leal]], [[Max Krüger]], [[Michael Ahmadi]], [[Jason Appiah]], [[Ricardo A. Baquero Gómez]], [[Daniel Courtney]], [[Ata Daee]], [[María Belén Giménez Ciciolli]], [[Lena Hieber]], [[Md Shakhawat Hossain]], [[Jeongmin Lee]], [[Ramona Plogmann]], [[Liliana Savage Pinto]], [[Sasmitha Sinnathurai]], [[Darinka Yepez]], [[Volker Wulf]]
library-catalog:: limits.pubpub.org
links:: [Local library](zotero://select/groups/2386895/items/XSYQ67U4), [Web library](https://www.zotero.org/groups/2386895/items/XSYQ67U4)

- [[Abstract]]
	- Various concepts have attempted to capture the nature of the contemporary political-economic system of globalised capitalism and its disastrous consequences for the planet, including World System Analysis or the Capitalocene. Especially Decolonial thinkers see its roots in colonialism. The resulting modernity/coloniality structures many aspects of human life everywhere, including gender identities, relationships amongst humans and with nature. Technology plays a vital part, requiring reflections on how HCI researchers can react to these challenges. In a class of an HCI master program, we have attempted to jointly begin to understand HCI’s role in the capitalocene by studying relevant concepts and empirically investigating specific local yet connected phenomena. With participants being distributed across the globe, we were able to study different shared yet locally specific phenomena inspired by multisited ethnography. In this paper, we report on the structure and experience of the class as well as our findings.
- [[Attachments]]
	- [Full Text PDF](https://limits.pubpub.org/pub/f8ee6iac/download/pdf) {{zotero-imported-file DLAKRKEU, "Leal et al. - 2021 - HCI’s Role in the Capitalocene Lessons Learned fr.pdf"}}