tags:: [[Digital Humanities]], [[HUMAN GEOGRAPHY]], [[Oman (South West Asia). Sultanat of Oman]], [[social media]]
date:: 2019
doi:: 10.3929/ETHZ-B-000339868
title:: @Mapping Human Landscapes in Muscat, Oman, with Social Media Data
pages:: 38 p.
item-type:: [[journalArticle]]
access-date:: 2021-03-03T08:40:21Z
rights:: "Creative Commons Attribution Share Alike 4.0 International, info:eu-repo/semantics/openAccess"
original-title:: "Mapping Human Landscapes in Muscat, Oman, with Social Media Data"
language:: en
url:: http://hdl.handle.net/20.500.11850/339868
authors:: [[Ludovica Tomarchio]]
library-catalog:: DOI.org (Datacite)
links:: [Local library](zotero://select/groups/2386895/items/UC35S23R), [Web library](https://www.zotero.org/groups/2386895/items/UC35S23R)

- [[Abstract]]
	- The paper presents a mapping process to define activity patterns and reveal the localisation of different city usersin Muscat, Oman, using social media data. The paper has two aims: to present a methodology to map activity patterns in the city in the Omani context, using social media data; to interpret the data and extract valuable narratives for the case study of Muscat. As various social media have penetrated into the daily life of people, these become one important and effective data source to understand how people use the spaces of the city. There is a series of questions related to big data and urban space that emerge such as: can social media data be “mined” in Muscat, Oman, to create design-relevant spatial information? What information about the use of urban space in the context of an Arab city can be extracted from social media data? The case study deals with Muscat, the capital of Oman, a city with peculiar socio-demographic, cultural aspects, influencing the use of the space, particularly when relating to open and public spaces. The proposed study uses data extracted from Twitter and Instagram to perform an analysis of the city of Muscat: The analysis looks at three scales and presents four thematic layers: one layer of generally finding hotspots of activities; two layers of investigating different patterns of activities during the day-night, weekdays-weekends and one layer of looking into the languages spoken in different areas of the city. This results in the mapping of how different sociallinguistic groups possibly move and interact in Muscat. The first part of the paper will present the methodology, from data collection to visualisation. The second part will look in detail at some selected areas and exemplify the narrative so that planners and designers can extract data from this approach and methodology.
- [[Attachments]]
	- [Tomarchio - 2019 - Mapping Human Landscapes in Muscat, Oman, with Soc.pdf](https://www.research-collection.ethz.ch/bitstream/handle/20.500.11850/339868/4_MappingHumanLandscapes.pdf?sequence=1&isAllowed=y) {{zotero-imported-file VEKQUP93, "Tomarchio - 2019 - Mapping Human Landscapes in Muscat, Oman, with Soc.pdf"}}
- [[Notes]]
	- ## Other
	  
	  The paper presents a mapping process to define activity patterns and reveal the localisation of different city usersin Muscat, Oman, using social media data. The paper has two aims: to present a methodology to map activity patterns in the city in the Omani context, using social media data; to interpret the data and extract valuable narratives for the case study of Muscat. As various social media have penetrated into the daily life of people, these become one important and effective data source to understand how people use the spaces of the city. There is a series of questions related to big data and urban space that emerge such as: can social media data be “mined” in Muscat, Oman, to create design-relevant spatial information? What information about the use of urban space in the context of an Arab city can be extracted from social media data? The case study deals with Muscat, the capital of Oman, a city with peculiar socio-demographic, cultural aspects, influencing the use of the space, particularly when relating to open and public spaces. The proposed study uses data extracted from Twitter and Instagram to perform an analysis of the city of Muscat: The analysis looks at three scales and presents four thematic layers: one layer of generally finding hotspots of activities; two layers of investigating different patterns of activities during the day-night, weekdays-weekends and one layer of looking into the languages spoken in different areas of the city. This results in the mapping of how different social- linguistic groups possibly move and interact in Muscat. The first part of the paper will present the methodology, from data collection to visualisation. The second part will look in detail at some selected areas and exemplify the narrative so that planners and designers can extract data from this approach and methodology.