date:: [[Jul 31st, 2015]]
issn:: 1396-0466
extra:: Citation Key: nardi2015
doi:: 10.5210/fm.v20i8.6126
title:: @nardi2015
item-type:: [[journalArticle]]
access-date:: 2024-02-08T12:34:46Z
original-title:: Inequality and limits
language:: en
url:: https://firstmonday.org/ojs/index.php/fm/article/view/6126
publication-title:: First Monday
journal-abbreviation:: FM
authors:: [[Bonnie Nardi]]
library-catalog:: DOI.org (Crossref)
links:: [Local library](zotero://select/groups/2386895/items/WXQMIBFA), [Web library](https://www.zotero.org/groups/2386895/items/WXQMIBFA)

- [[Abstract]]
	- Many indicators demonstrate growing economic inequality. Figure 1 depicts increasing economic disparity between social classes. Despite increased productivity, waged workers are losing ground because owners of capital are accumulating the wealth generated by increased productivity (Figure 2). Since wealth accumulation is the goal of capitalism, this is not surprising; it is what capitalists are supposed to do. Some forms of digitally mediated labor are not even waged any more, though they generate economic value. This labor includes casual labor managed in short-term contracts in systems such as Mechanical Turk, the uncompensated labor of self-service, and “affective” labor. Because technology supports a global labor force, traditional mechanisms of ensuring fairness, such as labor unions, are not always operative. This paper considers the problem of the distribution of wealth, and suggests sociotechnical mechanisms for a world with fewer traditional jobs.
- [[Attachments]]
	- [Nardi - 2015 - Inequality and limits.pdf](https://computingwithinlimits.org/2015/papers/limits2015-nardi.pdf) {{zotero-imported-file 4YLTEGZN, "Nardi - 2015 - Inequality and limits.pdf"}}