date:: [[Jul 5th, 2022]]
publisher:: Manning
place:: "Shelter Island, NY"
isbn:: 978-1-61729-888-2
title:: @The Jamstack Book: Beyond static sites with JavaScript, APIs, and markup
item-type:: [[book]]
original-title:: "The Jamstack Book: Beyond static sites with JavaScript, APIs, and markup"
language:: English
short-title:: The Jamstack Book
authors:: [[Raymond Camden]], [[Brian Rinaldi]]
library-catalog:: Amazon
links:: [Local library](zotero://select/groups/2386895/items/5ICZVYZ8), [Web library](https://www.zotero.org/groups/2386895/items/5ICZVYZ8)
num-pages:: 280

- [[Abstract]]
	- Jamstack = JavaScript, APIs, and Markup. Use established standard technologies to build super-fast static websites without sacrificing rich, dynamic features.In The Jamstack Book, you will learn how to: Use different static site generators to build websites Deploy Jamstack sites with 11ty, Next.js, Hugo, and Jekyll Add dynamic capabilities like form processing and eCommerce Enhance your Jamstack site with serverless capabilities Integrate a CMS with a Jamstack site  Jamstack sites use JavaScript, APIs, and Markup to create fast, dynamic pages without the overhead of heavyweight frameworks. The Jamstack Book is your essential guide to this exciting new web architecture. Written by renowned Jamstack experts Raymond Camden and Brian Rinaldi, it’s filled with real-world projects to develop and hone your skills. You’ll learn how to lay out and generate a site, set up your own CMS, and add dynamic features like user logins and search functionality. Confusing jargon is demystified. Plus, you’ll get the chance to try out different static site generators and find the one that works best for you. Pick up this book today, and you’ll discover how the Jamstack answers your need for speed and simplicity.  Purchase of the print book includes a free eBook in PDF, Kindle, and ePub formats from Manning Publications.  About the technology JavaScript, APIs, and pre-rendered Markup put the JAM in Jamstack. This modern web architecture delivers the quick load times of static sites along with the dynamic functionality you need for user-friendly interactive features. Built with lightweight standards and tools, Jamstack sites are fast, secure, easy to maintain, and naturally optimized for mobile and SEO.  About the book The Jamstack Book teaches effectively by creating a portfolio of sites, ranging from a simple blog to an eCommerce store. Each new project introduces important skills, including cloud deployment, user logins, and search. You’ll get hands-on experience with tools like 11ty, Next.js, and Netlify. As your skills grow, the examples become more sophisticated, including serverless technology, dynamic forms, and an integrated CMS.  What's inside Use different static site generators to build websites Add dynamic capabilities like form processing and eCommerce Enhance your Jamstack site with serverless capabilities Integrate a CMS with a Jamstack site About the reader For web developers and CMS site developers.  About the author Raymond Camden is the author of multiple books on web development and has been blogging and presenting for almost twenty years. Brian Rinaldi has been involved in static site and Jamstack development since the early days.  Table of Contents 1 Why Jamstack? 2 Building a basic Jamstack site 3 Building a blog 4 Building a documentation site 5 Building an e-commerce site 6 Deployment 7 Adding dynamic elements 8 Working with serverless computing 9 Adding a content management system 10 Migrating to the Jamstack
- [[Attachments]]
	- [Brian Rinaldi_ Raymond K. Camden - The Jamstack Book (2022, Manning Publications).epub](zotero://select/groups/2386895/items/F9Z3XUNH) {{zotero-imported-file F9Z3XUNH, "Brian Rinaldi_ Raymond K. Camden - The Jamstack Book (2022, Manning Publications).epub"}}